<World_Info>
World Info (also known as Lorebooks or Memory Books) is a powerful tool available in ST to insert prompts dynamically into your chat to help guide the AI replies.

Commonly, World Info (WI for short) is used to enhance the AI's understanding of the details in your fictional world, however you could use a World Info entry to insert ANYTHING that you would like to insert into the prompt.

It functions like a dynamic dictionary that only inserts relevant information from World Info entries when keywords associated with the entries are present in the message text.

The SillyTavern engine activates and seamlessly integrates the appropriate lore into the prompt, providing background information to the AI.

It is important to note that while World Info helps guide the AI toward the desired content, it does not guarantee its appearance in the generated output messages. That depends on how good your model is at making use of additional information!

#Pro Tips
The World Info engine is a very powerful prompt management tool. Don't fixate on adding character lore alone, feel free to experiment.
Activation keywords, titles, and other information that is not in the Content field is not inserted into context, so each World Info entry should have a comprehensive, standalone description.
To create rich and detailed world lore, entries can be interlinked and reference one another by using recursive activation. See more on Recursion below.
SillyTavern offers flexible context budgeting for inserted background information. To conserve prompt tokens, it is advisable to keep entry contents concise.
#Further reading
World Info Encyclopedia: Exhaustive in-depth guide to World Info and Lorebooks. By kingbri, Alicat, Trappu.
#Character Lore
Optionally, one World Info file could be assigned to a character to serve as a dedicated lore source across all chats with that character (including groups).

To do that, navigate to a Character Management panel and click a globe button, then pick World Info from a dropdown list and click "Ok".

To unbind or change character lore, Shift-click the globe button. If on mobile, click "More..." and then "Link World Info".

#Character Lore Insertion Strategy
When generating an AI reply, entries from the character World Info will be combined with the entries from a global World Info selector using one of the following strategies:

#Sorted Evenly (default)
All entries will be sorted according to their Insertion Order as if they a part of one big file, ignoring the source.

#Character Lore First
Entries from the Character World Info would be included first by their Insertion Order, then entries from the Global World Info.

#Global Lore First
Entries from the Global World Info Info would be included first by their Insertion Order, then entries from the Character World Info.

#World Info Entry
#Key
A list of keywords that trigger the activation of a World Info entry. Keys are not case-sensitive by default (this is configurable).

#Regular Expression (Regex) as Keys
Keys allow a more flexible approach to matching by supporting regex. This makes it possible to match more dynamic content with optional words or characters, spacing, and all the other utilities that regex provides.
If a defined key is a valid regex (Javascript regex style, with as delimiters. All flags are allowed), it will be treated as such when checking whether an entry should be triggered. Multiple regexes can be entered as separate keys and will work alongside each other. Inside a regex, commas are possible. Plaintext keys do not support commas, as they are treated as key separators./

An example of a use-case for advanced regex matching:
An entry/instruction that should be inserted, when char is doing a weather-related action


/(?:{{char}}|he|she) (?:is talking about|is noticing|is checking whether|observes) (?:the )?(rainy weather|heavy wind|it is going to rain|cloudy sky)/i
For more information on Regex syntax and possibilities: Regular expressions - JavaScript | MDN

#Advanced Regex Per-Message Matching
ST prefixes every chat message in the WI scan buffer with and after v1.12.6, concatenates prepends them using the character value 1 ().
This means you can match specific input or output from a certain character using a regex tied to that separation character.character name:\x01

For example, to match only the user saying "hello", you could use the following regex:


/\x01{{user}}:[^\x01]*?hello/
#Key Input
There are two modes to enter keywords, each with a slightly different UI. In ⌨️ plaintext mode (default), keys can be entered as a comma-separated list in a single text field. Regexes can be included too, but they don't have any special highlighting. In ✨ fancy mode, the keys appear as separate elements and regexes will be highlighted as such. The control supports editing and deleting keys. The mode can be switched via the inline button inside the input control.

#Optional Filter
Comma-separated list of additional keywords in conjunction with the primary key. If no arguments are provided, this flag is ignored. Supports logic for AND ANY, NOT ANY, or NOT ALL

AND ANY = Activates the entry only if the primary key and Any one of the optional filter keys are in scanned context.
AND ALL = Activates the entry only if the primary key and ALL of the optional filter keys are present.
NOT ANY = Activates the entry only if the primary key and None of the optional filter keys are in scanned context.
NOT ALL = Prevents activation of the entry despite primary key trigger, if all of the optional filters are in scanned context.
These keys also support regex.

#Entry Content
The text that is inserted into the prompt upon entry activation.

#Insertion Order
Numeric value. Defines a priority of the entry if multiple were activated at once. Entries with higher order numbers will be inserted closer to the end of the context as they will have more impact on the output.

#Insertion Position
Before Char Defs: World Info entry is inserted before the character's description and scenario. Has a moderate impact on the conversation.
After Char Defs: World Info entry is inserted after the character's description and scenario. Has a greater impact on the conversation.
Before Example Messages: The World Info entry is parsed as an example dialogue block and inserted before the examples provided by the character card.
After Example Messages: The World Info entry is parsed as an example dialogue block and inserted after the examples provided by the character card.
Top of AN: World Info entry is inserted at the top of Author's Note content. Has a variable impact depending on the Author's Note position.
Bottom of AN: World Info entry is inserted at the bottom of Author's Note content. Has a variable impact depending on the Author's Note position.
@ D: World Info entry is inserted at a specific depth in the chat (Depth 0 being the bottom of the prompt).
⚙️ - as a system role message
👤 - as a user role message
🤖 - as an assistant role message
Example Message entries will be formatted according to the prompt-building settings: Instruct Mode or Chat Completion prompt manager. They also follow the Example Messages Behavior rules: being gradually pushed out on full context, always kept, or disabled altogether.

If your Author's Note is disabled (Insertion Frequency = 0), World Info entries in A/N positions will be ignored!

#Entry Title / Memo
A text field for your convenience to label your entries, which is not utilized by the AI or any of the trigger logics.

If empty, can be backfilled using the entries' first key by clicking on the "Fill empty memos" button.

#Strategy
🔵 (Blue Circle) = The entry would always be present in the prompt.
🟢 (Green Circle) = The entry will be triggered only in the presence of the keyword.
🔗 (Chain Link) = The entry is allowed to be inserted by embedding similarity.
Each Entry also has a toggle that allows you to enable or disable the entry.

#Probability (Trigger %)
This value acts like an additional filter that adds a chance for the entry NOT to be inserted when it is activated by any means (constant, primary key, recursion).

Probability = 100 means that the entry will be inserted on every activation.
Probability = 50 means that the entry will be inserted with a 1:1 chance.
Probability = 0 means that the entry will NOT be inserted (essentially disabling it).
Use this to create random events in your chats. For example, every message could have a 1% chance of waking up an Elder God if its name is mentioned in the message.

#Inclusion Group
Inclusion groups control how entries are selected when multiple entries with the same group label are triggered simultaneously. If multiple entries having the same group label were activated, only one will be inserted into the prompt.

By default, the chosen entry is selected randomly based on their Group Weight (default is 100 points) — the higher the number, the higher the probability of selection. This allows for a random selection among the triggered entries, adding an element of surprise and variety to interactions.

A single entry can be part of multiple inclusion groups if they are defined as a comma-separated list. The same logic as explained above will apply. If that entry is triggered, it will disable all other entries that are part of any of its groups. Therefore, if any of the groups are activated, this entry will not be activated.

#Prioritize Inclusion
To provide more control over which entries are activated via Inclusion Group, you can use the 'Prioritize Inclusion' setting. This option allows you to specify deterministically which entry to choose instead of randomly rolling Group Weight chances.

If multiple entries having the same group label and this setting turned on were activated, the one with the highest 'Order' value will be selected. This is useful for creating fallback sequences via inclusion groups. For example to prioritize low-depth entries with more emphasis, or to choose a specific instruction on setting the scene over another if both are valid.

#Use Group Scoring
When this setting is enabled globally or per entry, the number of activated entry keys determines the group winner selection. Only the subset of a group with the highest number of key matches will be left to be activated by Group Weight or Inclusion Priority - the rest will be deactivated and removed from the group.

Use this to give more specificity for individual entries in large groups. For example, they can have a common key and a specific key. A random entry will be inserted when a specific key is not provided, and vice versa.

The score calculation logic for primary keys is 1 match = 1 point.

For secondary keys, the interaction depends on the chosen Selective Logic:

AND ANY: 1 secondary match = 1 point.
AND ALL: 1 point for every secondary key if they all match.
NOT ANY and NOT ALL: no change.
Example:

Entry 1. Keys: song, sing, Black Cat. Group: songs
Entry 2. Keys: song, sing, Ghosts. Group: songs
The input can activate either entry (both activated 2 keys), but will activate only Entry 2 (activated 3 keys).sing me a songsing me a song about Ghosts

#Automation ID
Allows to integrate World Info entries with STscripts from Quick Replies extension. If both the quick reply command and the WI entry have the same Automation ID, the command will be executed automatically when the entry with a matching ID is activated.

Automations are executed in the order they are triggered, adhering to your designated sorting strategy, combining the Character Lore Insertion Strategy with the 'Priority' sorting. Which leads to Blue Circle entries processed first, followed by others in their specified 'Order'. Recursively triggered entries will be processed after in the same order.

The script command will run only once if multiple entries with the same Automation ID are activated.

#Additional matching sources
By default World Info Entries are matched only against content from the current conversation. These options allow you to match the entry against different character information that does not show up in the chat, or even persona information. This is useful when you want to have a wide range of entries that are to be used between several characters but don't want to have to manage large lists of tags, or don't want to have to update character filter lists every time you create a new one. This also allows you to match entries based on the persona you have active.

Character Description: Matches against the character description.
Character Personality: Matches against the character personality summary, found under Advanced Definitions.
Scenario: Matches against the character specified scenario, found under Advanced Definitions.
Persona Description: Matches against the current selected persona's description.
Character's Note: Matches against the character's note, which can be found under Advanced Definitions.
Creator's Notes: Matches against the character creator's notes, which can be found under Advanced Definitions. The creator's notes are usually not included in the prompt.
#Vector Storage Matching
The Vector Storage extension provides an alternative to keyword matching by using the similarity between the recent chat messages and World Info entry contents.

To enable and use this, the following prerequisites need to be met:

Vector Storage extension is enabled and is configured to use one of the available embedding sources.
The "Enable for World Info" checkbox is ticked in the Vector Storage extension settings.
Either the World Info entries that are allowed for keyless matching have the "Vectorized" (🔗) status or the "Enabled for all entries" option is checked in the Vector Storage settings.
The choice of the vectorization model in the extension and the theoretical meaning behind the term "embeddings" won't be covered here. Check out the Data Bank guide if you require more info on this topic.

Vector Storage matching adheres to this set of rules:

The maximum number of entries that are allowed to be matched with the Vector Storage can be adjusted with the "Max Entries" setting. This number only sets the limit and does not influence the token budget set in the activation settings for World Info. All of the budgeting rules still apply.
This feature only replaces the check for keywords. All additional checks must be met for the entry to be inserted: trigger%, character filters, inclusion groups, etc.
The "Scan Depth" setting from Activation Settings or entry overrides is not used. The Vector Storage "Query messages" value is utilized instead to get the text to match against. This allows for a configuration like "Scan Depth" set to 0, so no regular keyword matches will be made, but entries still can be activated by vectors.
A "Vectorized" status is only an additional marker. The entry would still behave like a normal, enabled, non-constant record that will be activated by keywords if they are set. Remove the keywords if you want them to be activated only by vectors.
Note
Since the retrieval quality depends entirely on the outputs of the embedding model, it's impossible to predict exactly what entries will be inserted. If you want deterministic and predictable results, stick to keyword matching.

#Timed Effects
Usually, World Info evaluation is stateless, meaning that the result of the evaluation is the same, only depending on the current chat context. However, with the introduction of Timed Effects, you can create entries that have an activation delay, stay active after being triggered, or can't be triggered after the activation.

#Timed Effects Rules
The time frames for the effects are measured in messages (not pairs of messages/exchanges), with 0 meaning there is no effect.
Effects only apply in the chat where the entry was activated. Branches inherit the state of the parent chat.
Active timed effects are removed if the chat doesn't advance, e.g. if the last message was swiped or deleted.
Making any changes to the entry that is currently on timed effect will cause the effect to be forcibly removed.
Consequent triggering of keywords does not refresh the effect duration if it's already active.
#Types of Timed Effects
Sticky - the entry stays active for N messages after being activated. Stickied entries ignore probability checks on consequent scans until they expire.
Cooldown - the entry can't be activated for N messages after being activated. Can be used together with sticky: the entry goes on cooldown when the sticky duration ends.
Delay - the entry can't be activated unless there are at least N messages in the chat at the moment of evaluation.
Delay = 0 -> The entry can be activated at any time.
Delay = 1 -> The entry can't be activated if the chat is empty (no greeting).
Delay = 2 -> The entry can't be activated if there is zero or only one message in the chat, etc.
#Timed Effects Example
Entry configuration: sticky = 3, cooldown = 2, delay = 2.


Message 0: delay
Message 1: entry activated
Message 2: sticky
Message 3: sticky
Message 4: sticky
Message 5: cooldown
Message 6: cooldown
Message 7: entry can be activated again
#Activation Settings
Collapsible menu at the top of the World Info screen.

#Scan Depth
Can be overridden on an entry level.

Defines how many messages in the chat history should be scanned for World Info keys.

If set to 0, then only recursed entries and Author's Note are evaluated.
If set to 1, then SillyTavern only scans the last message.
2 = two last messages, etc.
#Include Names
Defines if the names of the chat participants should be included in the scanned text buffer as message prefixes. This allows activating entries that use names as keywords without directly mentioning the names in messages.

See an example of the text to be scanned below, assuming the chat participants are named Alice and Bob.

Enabled (default):


Alice: Hello! Good to see you.
Bob: How is the weather today?
Disabled:


Hello! Good to see you.
How is the weather today?
#Context % / Budget
Defines how many tokens could be used by World Info entries at once. You can define a threshold relative to your API's max-context settings (Context %) or an objective token threshold (Budget)

If the budget is exhausted, then no more entries are activated even if the keys are present in the prompt.

Constant entries will be inserted first. Then entries with higher order numbers.

Entries inserted by directly mentioning their keys have higher priority than those that were mentioned in other entries' contents.

#Min Activations
This setting is mutually exclusive with Max Recursion Steps.

Minimum Activations: If set to a non-zero value, this will disregard the limitation of "scan-depth", seeking all of the chat log backward from the latest message for keywords until as many entries as specified in min activations have been triggered. This will still be limited by the Max Depth setting or your overall Budget cap.

Additional scan sweeps triggered by Min Activations will not check entries added by recursion on previous steps. Only chat messages and extension prompts can trigger these additional activations. However, the entries activated by Min Activations can trigger other entries as usual.

#Max Depth
Maximum Depth to scan for when using the Min Activations setting.

#Recursive scanning
Recursive scanning allows for entries to activate other entries or be activated by others, enabling complex interactions and dependencies between different World Info entries. This feature can significantly enhance the dynamic nature of your creative scenarios.
Whether recursive scanning is enabled can be controlled with the global setting Recursive Scan.
There are three options available to control recursion for each entry:

8 Non-recursable: When this checkbox is selected, the entry will not be activated by other entries. This is useful for static information that should not change or be influenced by other world info entries.

Prevent further recursion: Selecting this option ensures that once this entry is activated, it will not trigger any other entries. This is helpful to avoid unintended chains of activations.

Delay until recursion: This entry will only be activated during recursive checks, meaning it won't be triggered in the initial pass but can be activated by other entries that have recursion enabled. Now, with the added Recursion Level for those delays, entries are grouped by levels. Initially, only the first level (smallest number) will match. Once no matches are found, the next level becomes eligible for matching, repeating the process until all levels are checked. This allows for more control over how and when deeper layers of information are revealed during recursion, especially in combination with criteria as NOT ANY or NOT ALL combination of key matches.

Entries can activate other entries by mentioning their keywords in the content text.

For example, if your World Info contains two entries:


Entry #1
Keyword: Bessie
Content: Bessie is a cow and is friends with Rufus.

Entry #2
Keyword: Rufus
Content: Rufus is a dog.
Both of them will be pulled into the context if the message text mentions just Bessie.

#Max Recursion Steps
This setting is mutually exclusive with Min Activations.

When set to zero, recursion nesting is only limited by your prompt budget. When set to a non-zero value, limits the total number of scan sweeps to desired maximum "nesting level".

Example values:

1 effectively disables recursion as the check stops after the first step.
2 can only activate recursive entries once.
3 can trigger recursion twice...
#Case-sensitive keys
Can be overridden on an entry level.

To get pulled into the context, entry keys need to match the case as they are defined in the World Info entry.

This is useful when your keys are common words or parts of common words.

For example, when this setting is active, keys 'rose' and 'Rose' will be treated differently, depending on the inputs.

#Match whole words
Can be overridden on an entry level.

Entries with keys containing only one word will be matched only if the entire word is present in the search text. Enabled by default.

For example, if the setting is enabled and the entry key is "king", then text such as "long live the king" would be matched, but "it's not to my liking" wouldn't.

Important: this setting can have a detrimental effect when used with languages that don't use whitespace to separate words (e.g. Japanese or Chinese). If you write entries in these languages, it is advised to keep it off.

#Alert on overflow
Shows an alert if the activated World Info exceeds the allocated token budget.

World Info Encyclopedia
Page written by: kingbri

Contributors: kingbri, Alicat, Trappu

Need help? Ping on a Discord server! My DMs are locked. If you'd like to contribute, let me know and I'll put your name in the contributors list!@kingbri

Character used
SillyTavern settings
Basics
Environment
Lore
Placement
Scan depth
Context Percent
Token Budget
Disable selector
Specificity
Replacing the Author's Note
Advanced concepts
Recursive scanning
Recursion scalability
PList base world
Lorebook stacking
Character filters
Mixing formats
Conclusion
World info is essential for establishing an environment and world for your character(s). It's especially important if you're planning on creating a group chat with a shared world, or just having multiple characters from the same universe.

This is NOT a guide on how to write characters.

If you're looking to create a new character and learn about the fundamentals of PLists and Ali:Chat, please look at Pygmalion's Wiki. Then, come back here to read more about world info.

First off, let's clear up some misconceptions due to misuse of words across the interwebs:

A world info (abbreviated: WI) is a file that contains the global environment. It applies to all characters.
A lorebook (abbreviated: LB) contains the lore for a character. It applies to a specific character that's linked to the lorebook.
I will be referring to both world info and lorebooks as "world info" since they are fundementally the same structure. Unless lorebooks are specified, "world info" = world info and lorebooks.

Character used
To follow this guide, you can find an example world info and a simple PList character with an embedded lorebook here. Please make sure to import the embedded lorebook when prompted, or click the globe icon inside the character card panel in SillyTavern.

Don't use the character from the PList-base folder unless you are learning that section.

SillyTavern settings
Here is an image showing the various configuration options of World Info (with the editor):

photo20231001011243 2jpg

Here's an image that shows Lorebook selection for a character (can be accessed by the options dropdown on a character ):Link to World Info

photo20231001011243jpg

Basics
Firstly, there's a concept you need to understand called a key/value pair. Every key corresponds to a unique value. Multiple keys can point to a single value. When that key is mentioned in a prompt, the value is injected into it.

Now that this concept is understood, let's look into the various ways to make key value pairs. There are two overarching types:

Environment - Simple PList
Lore - Combination of PList + Ali:Chat
This structure is based on PList + Ali:Chat characters. If you have a character in a different format, write values in that format! For example, a plaintext character should have values that are in plaintext (but, this is not always true. Look in the advanced section for more information).

Environment
These pairs consist of areas and objects such as places, buildings, landmarks, even houses. You mainly want a simplistic PList description with all the characteristics of the area.

For an example, let's look at a town in Farlandia. Here's how this will look in World Info:

[Mossford(The town of Moss): town, mossy buildings, moss used for(magic, power), has(tavern, bank, inn, castle), kind people, wealthy] - Here, Mossford has a strong association/alias to a nickname and it contains the PList entries of a town landscape.(The town of Moss)
For keys, put anything that associates to the place. With Mossford, I put . Even though the keys may seem general, they all associate with Mossford, so it'll get thrown into the context whenever it's needed. Don't worry about including spaces between commas, SillyTavern trims excess whitespace for you!Mossford,town,moss

If you have a one-word description of a place. Consider using a strong association instead. For example, just calling Mossford a town will be listed as rather than wasting extra tokens on a full PList.Mossford(town)

Lore
These pairs can consist of both PLists and Ali:Chat entries and are ideally placed inside a lorebook. The PList is used for generic descriptions while Ali:Chat is used for examples on what the character thinks about the lore entry.

One exception is when a character is reacting to a global object from world info. Since the global object already has a PList, you only need to write an Ali:Chat reaction only if the object is considered to be really important.

Here is an example of Shizuru's feelings about slimes, a global world info object:

PList (from Farlandia's world info) - [slime: enemy, slimeball, made of gelatin, bounces to move, annoyance]
Ali:Chat (in Shizuru's lorebook) -

1
2
{{user}}: Slime?
{{char}}: "Oh... Those things." She looks down and slightly blushes in embarrassment. "I remember first fighting those things. They're so quick that it's hard to get a good strike on them." Shizuru brushes away the memory. "Anyways, let's keep going. There's more places to explore."
In this case, the PList contains an entry for a slime and the Ali:Chat provides information of how Shizuru feels about them. Follow the same template for any other specific lore that one may have for a character.

Outfits?

If you want your character to have alternate outfits based on the scene at hand, add both the PList and Ali:Chat entries in the lorebook.

For keys, follow the same principles as environment pairs and think about what someone would use to trigger injection of this pair. For triggering slimes, I used because these keys are needed when a slime is relevant. To start off, use the same keys for both the PList and Ali:Chat, but feel free to add more onto either as necessary.slime,slimes

Placement
The World Info editor also has an option for placement. In a prompt, there are two places to inject world info:

Before character - Before the character description (wiBefore in story string)
After character - After the character description (wiAfter in story string)
Author's note top - Top of author's note
Author's note bottom - Bottom of author's note
At depth - At a specific depth in the context, starting from the bottom and working up as the depth increases. The lower the depth, the more important the information is in the prompt.
These positions are determined based on how important something is in the prompt. If you believe something to be more important, then place it further down the prompt. Depth is the most useful option since the entries can be placed anywhere.

For Shizuru and Farlandia's world info, I place PLists at a depth of 5 (one above author's note/persona Plist WI entry) and Ali:Chats at the position.After character

Do not overdo importance!

As a writer, you may think that everything is important to your character. This is not the case and should be avoided to prevent possible leakage. Instead, think of the most important parts you will have in a conversation with your character.
For example, a description of a city can be placed before the character description since it's never highlighted in the chat itself, but the character is aware of it.

Scan depth
This dictates the amount of chat messages to scan for world info. Generally, this should be kept at the default of unless you want more messages to be scanned for injection. I use .24

Context Percent
The percent of context that world info can occupy at a maximum. Keep this to the default of unless you want a higher maximum budget for world info context injection. I use .25%45%

Token Budget
If you don't like using a percent, this allows you to set the maximum token amount to budget for world info. Make sure to set context percent to and move around the budget from there.100%

Are you an adventurer?

Set a high scan depth and context percent/budget! Adventure mode warrants a larger emphasis on world info, so more budget and scanning is needed. I use a scan depth of and a budget of (you can increase these values as the context size of your model increases).151800

Disable selector
An entry can be marked as , , or . In SillyTavern, these are represented as green, yellow, and red in the selection dropdown. Here's what each color stands for:constantconditionaldisabled

Green: constant
Yellow: conditional (relies on key activation). This is the default option.
Red: Disabled
Specificity
What if a certain entry in World Info focuses on a specific character? Well, in that case, the dropdown between primary and secondary keys has options for and . For , this condition requires that both keys from the primary and secondary list are presented in the prompt for the world info to trigger injection. is the opposite where the presence of a secondary key will not trigger injection. Let's take a look at an example with Shizuru's previous house using the condition:ANDNOTANDNOTAND

Value: [Shizuru's house: house(Japanese, traditional), located in Japan, sliding doors, tatami mats, futons, lived with {{user}}, no longer accessible]
Keys:

Primary: house,home
Secondary: your,yours,she,her,our,ours
The inclusion of primary and secondary keys means that both have to be included for entry injection. A sentence such as will fire for keywords , and .Let's go to your homehomeyour

If you want to trigger the entry based on the character's name, add to the secondary keys. If is on, the character's name is included because that's given with the prompt. However, a lorebook will accomplish the same thing, so only do this if you're including the specific entry in world info.ShizuruAlways add character's name to prompt

Replacing the Author's Note
You may recall from the Pygmalion guide that a character's PList containing sections such as persona and appearance is usually placed into the . With lorebooks, this is no longer necessary! Character PLists can now be placed inside a lorebook with a specific depth and the best part is that there'sCharacter's Author's note

Utilizing embedded lorebooks leaves the author's note open for what it really is, a quick and convienient place to add information at any prompt depth.

To accomplish this:

Create a new lorebook for your character (if there isn't one already)
Create a new entry and add in the character PList
Mark the entry as Constant
Select and set it to (or whatever depth you previously set author's note to)At Depth4
Associate the lorebook with the character card
Export the character card from SillyTavern (which contains the embedded lorebook)
SillyTavern will prompt the user to import the embedded lorebook once the character is imported. Be sure to do that.

Nowadays, I keep my character persona inside a lorebook entry and put inside author's note at a depth of 1.[Genre; Tags; Scenario]

I advise more people switch to this method as it's easier for the end user.

Advanced concepts
These concepts are... advanced. If you have a hang of the basics, feel free to proceed.

This section is being updated as new features are created and more ideas are shared. Keep an eye out!
If you are confused, ask in Discord! I don't bite.

Recursive scanning
Recursive scanning, or recursion, is a fancy way of saying "do something again if a condition is met". You can also call this a form of looping. With world info, recursion occurs in the form of keys and subkeys.

Let's say you want to categorize Farlandia's monsters:

Key - ; Value - monsters[Farlandia's monsters: slimes]
Key - ; Value - slimes[slime: enemy, slimeball, made of gelatin, bounces to move, annoyance]
With recursive scanning enabled, mentioning the word in chat will inject both and into the context.monstersmonstersslimes

Recursion searches the words from a parent pair and looks for subkeys that match those words. In this case, the value for contained and the pair for was found and injected into the context.monstersslimesslimes

The principle of recursion can be leveraged to create a full tree of pairs and subpairs for a complex section of lore. This will help further define and expand your world.

Sometimes, you might want to avoid recursion for some entries. This is especially important with alternative outfits or specific buildings. You can enable in SillyTavern when editing the world info entry.Non-Recursable

Recursion scalability
Scalability is very important when creating world info. While there's a % context limit that you can set, it's bad to run out of WI budget when sending a message.

Let's start by editing Farlandia's world info. I want to have a category of monsters and recursively create a tree that works downstream until all monsters are fetched into context. The main issue is that the more monsters I have, the harder it's going to be to coordinate all these tokens since each monster will have a PList and Ali:Chat entry associated with it.

So here's an algorithm that does just that. PLists are always injected and recursed since they're ideally small fragments of what a monster is. However, Ali:Chat is not pulled unless the specific monster's keys are stated in context. An image of the algorithm is provided below:

IMG0537jpg

To accomplish this algorithm, enable on Ali:Chat lorebook entries.Non-Recursable

But what about if all those monsters tie to a common attribute which the character has specific feelings for? For example, Shizuru treats and as enemies. In this case, the algorithm will have to be expanded to look like the following:slimesdragons

IMG0536jpg

To accomplish this modification, create a common Ali:Chat of how the character feels towards multiple items and make sure it's recursable.

PList base world
Multiple PLists have a higher possibility of causing leakage of brackets. If you are seeing leaking, this base world can help compress all PList information into one PList per world info insertion depth and position (ex. After char or depth at 5).

Firstly, create a new world and add two entries. One entry contains a while the other contains a . These are square bracket borders for a PList.[]
Next, make the first entry have an insertion order of and the second entry have an insertion order of . This ensures that anything in between these orders will be nested inside the PList.2998
Finally, mark both of these entries as and select the placement. Both entries need to be in the same placement (or depth) otherwise you'll get extremely weird responses!Constant
Rinse and repeat for any other placements
After selecting your PList base world in global info, remove the from PList entries in all associated worlds and add a to the end of each entry.[];

Make every Ali:Chat entry have an insertion order of either 1 or 999. This will make sure these example dialogues go before or after the large PList.

Here's an example of a constructed WI Plist prompt

[
Farlandia's monsters: slimes, dragons;
slime: enemy, slimeball, made of gelatin, bounces to move, annoyance;
]

Templates

If you don't want to create this world by yourself, a quick start JSON is provided here. Just disable the entries you don't want to see. Select this world inside global world info, which will inject square brackets at insertion positions and . Finally, follow the steps above to convert old PList entries into ones compatible with PList base.2998

Modified Shizuru

You can also find Shizuru's modified character and worlds here as a more concrete example of how a character is adopted for PList base.

Lorebook stacking
Sometimes, the character you're writing for may be a variation of a base character. The most common usecase for stacking is for building an NSFW character based on an SFW one. However, I'll be using an example of two characters to stay in tone of this guide.Shizuru

The characters are as follows:

Shizuru: A samurai that fell into another world with the User
Shizuru: An edo-period princess that fell into another world with the User
Now, these two characters will each need a lorebook, but it would be best to build on a single "core" lorebook. The core will consist of entries for Shizuru the samurai and an expansion lorebook will be created for Shizuru the princess. With this architecture, both the core and expansion lorebook can be updated independently from each other.

To add an expansion/auxillary lorebook in SillyTavern, just enter the character's lorebook selection screen and add the name under .Auxillary lorebooks

Character filters
Let's say you have a world info entry and you only want a certain character to trigger it. This is now possible with the box in SillyTavern.Filter to Character(s)

To illustrate this, let's say there are two characters named and . The sample entry is as follows: . We want Jamie to know about the Skytree, but nobody else should. It's her secret place. In this case, add into the filter list. Now Jamie knows about the Skytree, but nobody else does.JamieBill[Skytree: skyscraper, large building, located in Tokyo]Jamie

What about if you don't want certain characters to trigger an entry? That exists too. Inside SillyTavern, check the box and all the characters in your filter list will now be excluded from triggering that entry.Character Exclusion

For the example of Jamie and Bill, just remove Jamie and add in the box. Now Bill doesn't know what the Skytree is, but Jamie and any other character does!BillExclude character(s)

This feature is more suited with lorebooks, especially if you're creating a character with stacked lorebooks. Sometimes an entry from the core character should not leak into other characters (like a personality PList)!

Mixing formats
I get it, people are lazy. A large world info you imported is in plaintext and you don't want to format it. However, you still want to use the world info. What do you do?

Well... formats can be mixed, but they should be placed much farther up the context. The main reason is because the formatting won't make the AI think that world info is dialogue.

Let's say that you have a character that's in PList + Ali:Chat, but world info is in plaintext. You'd place the world info entries before character defintions. This way, the world info has less potential to confuse the AI since it isn't being treated like an action or dialogue (depending on the character formatting style).

Another possibility is to use the PList base world and place the plaintext world info in there. This will wrap all the plaintext world info in square bracket format. This way, the AI will know that the injected information isn't part of dialogue or actions. But, this can cause unintended side effects.

Overall, the best solution for a foreign world info book is to reformat it.

Conclusion
</World_Info>
